.\" Copyright 2023-2024, Henry Stratmann III
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii manos.1
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH "MANOS" "1" "April 4th 2024" "Manos 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
manos \- doxygen man page generator
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY manos
.OP \--help
.YS
.SY manos
.OP \--version
.YS
.SY manos
.OP \-\-filter PATTERN
.OP \-\-synopsis TYPE
.OP \-\-section NUMBER
.OP \-\-preamble FILE
.OP \-\-epilogue FILE
.OP \-\-topic TEXT
.OP \-\-footer\-middle TEXT
.OP \-\-footer\-inside TEXT
.OP \-\-header\-middle TEXT
.OP \-\-autofill
.OP \-\-output PATH
.RI config
.YS
(See the OPTIONS section for details.)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generate man pages for a C project using Doxygen for documentation generation where
.I config
is the name of the Doxygen configuration file.
.PP
The Doxygen configuration file is generated by running
.BR doxygen(1)
with the
.B \-g
option followed by an optional file name.
If the file name is omitted then Doxygen will name it
.BR Doxyfile .
The contents of the file is a list of key/value pairs which need not be in any particular configuration for
.BR manos (1).
.PP
Doxygen already supports generating man pages via the
.SM GENERATE_MAN
option, however, the output is less-than-stellar for projects written in the C programming language.
For example the formatting and lack of per-function man page is atypical of what one would expect.
Manos corrects these shortcomings by generating a man page per-function and with defacto standard formatting.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-o \fIpath\fP"
.TQ
.B "\-\-output \fIpath\fP"
Where to write the generated man pages.
Where
.I path
is a path to a directory on the file system.
If the option is omitted, then the output is written to the same directory as the Doxygen configuration file.
The user must have write permissions to the output directory.
.TP
.B "\-s \fInumber\fP"
.TQ
.B "\-\-section \fInumber\fP"
The man page section number.
Must be an integer in the inclusive range 1-9.
Defaults to 3.
.TP
.B "\-\-preamble \fIfile\fP"
Content to prepend at the top of every generated man pages.
Where
.I file
is the name of a file with the content.
.TP
.B "\-\-epilogue \fIfile\fP"
Content to append to the bottom of every generated man pages.
Where
.I file
is the name of a file with the content.
.TP
.B "\-\-topic \fItext\fP"
Text centered in the footer.
.TP
.B "\-\-footer\-middle \fItext\fP"
Text centered at the bottom of the man page.
.TP
.B "\-\-footer\-inside \fItext\fP"
Text at the bottom left of the man page.
.TP
.B "\-\-header\-middle \fItext\fP"
Text centered in the header of the man page.
This need not be supplied.
.TP
.B "\-\-autofill"
Populate header and footer text with auto-generated content.
For example, the footer middle will be populated with the date the man page was generated.
.TP
.B "\-S \fItype\fP"
.TQ
.B "\-\-synopsis \fItype\fP"
Include
.I type
in the SYNOPSIS section of header file man pages.
Where
.I type
is one of

\(bu \fBfunctions\fP
.br
\(bu \fBcomposites\fP
.br
\(bu \fBenums\fP
.br
\(bu \fBvariables\fP
.br
\(bu \fBtypedefs\fP
.br
\(bu \fBmacros\fP

This option does not affect man pages for functions which implictly include the function signature that they document.
.TP
.B "\-F \fIpattern\fP"
.TQ
.B "\-\-filter \fIpattern\fP"
XML files matching
.I pattern
are excluded from processing.
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
Display help text and exit.
No other output is generated.
.TP
.B \-v
.TQ
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
No other output is generated.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RETURN CODES
.B manos
returns code
.B 0
on success, code
.B 1
on an error, and code
.B 2
if the program arguments are incorrect.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLE
Assuming a C project has a Doxygen configuration file named
.BR Doxyfile ", "
then run the following command from the same directory:
.PP
.EX
$ manos Doxyfile
.EE
.PP
This command will generate man pages for the project.
They will be written to the same directory as the Doxygen configuration file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH REPOSITORY
.UR https://GitHub.com/hgs3/manos
https://GitHub.com/hgs3/manos
.UE
.ME
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
Manos is distributed under an Open Source license.
See the file "LICENSE" in the Manos source distribution for information on terms & conditions for accessing and otherwise using Manos and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
